.\" $Id$
.\" %GPL_START_LICENSE%
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright 2015-2016, Google, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2015, Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\" implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License contained in the file
.\" `COPYING-GPL' at the top of this distribution or at
.\" https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html for more details.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %END_LICENSE%
.Dd March 23, 2016
.Dt SLADM 7
.ds volume PSC \- SLASH2 Administrator's Manual
.Os http://www.psc.edu/
.Sh NAME
.Nm sladm
.Nd
.Tn SLASH2
administration guide
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Tn SLASH2
is a distributed network file system featuring:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
support for data multi residency at the file chunk level
.It
system managed data transfer
.It
inline checksum verification
.El
.Pp
This document describes the steps involving in creating and deploying a
.Tn SLASH2
file system.
.Ss Creating a File System for SLASH2 Metadata
.Tn SLASH2
uses
.Tn ZFS ,
and specifically
.Xr zfs-fuse 8 ,
for its backend.
This backend is called the metadata file system
.Pq MDFS .
.Pp
To create an MDFS, first launch
.Xr zfs-fuse 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mds-host# zfs-fuse
.Ed
.Pp
Now follow the normal zpool creation instructions (i.e. the official
.Tn ZFS
documentation), tailored to the deployment requirements, such as drive
redundancy, cache devices, etc.
.Pp
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mds-host# zpool create mypool sda		# single drive MDFS
mds-host# zpool create mypool mirror sda sdb	# two-drive mirror
.Ed
.Pp
Other pool settings that may tuned (this list is by no means
comprehensive):
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mds-host# zfs set atime=off mypool
mds-host# zfs set compression=lz4 mypool
mds-host# zpool set cachefile=/mypool.zcf mypool
.Ed
.Pp
Before this MDFS can be used by the
.Tn SLASH2
metadata server, it must be initialized or
.Dq formatted
with
.Xr slmkfs 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mds-host# slmkfs -I $site_id:$res_id /mypool
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Va $site_id
must match the site's ID and
.Va $res_id
must match the resource's ID as specified in
.Xr slcfg 5 ,
in hexadecimal format with leading
.Sq 0x
prefix notation.
.Pp
During formatting of the MDFS, a SLASH2 deployment
.Dq file system universally unique ID
.Pq fsuuid
will be generated and written into a special location inside the MDFS.
This value should be stashed into the deployment's
.Xr slcfg 5
file as all daemons
.Po
.Xr slashd 8 and
.Xr sliod 8
.Pc
in the deployment must agree on its value.
.Pp
Now that the MDFS has been set up,
.Xr zfs-fuse 8
must be terminated before the
.Tn SLASH2
metadata server can access it:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mds-host# umount /mypool
mds-host# pkill zfs-fuse
.Ed
.Ss Metadata Server Po Ss MDS Pc
The metadata server
.Xr slashd 8
maintains a journal file for resuming interrupted operations.
This can be created with the
.Xr slmkjrnl 8
utility:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mds-host# slmkjrnl -f -b /dev/disk0 -u $fsuuid
.Ed
.Pp
Note that a low-latency, non-volatile device
.Pq such as Tn NVRAM
is ideal for this function.
.Pp
The MDS server also maintains an
.Tn SQLite
database for managing some of its workloads.
This is created automatically by
.Xr slashd 8
as necessary for its operation.
.Pp
Now launch
.Xr slashd 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mds-host# slashd -p /mypool.zcf mypool
.Ed
.Pp
.Xr slmctl 8
can be used to control live operation of
.Xr slashd 8
once it is online.
.Ss I/O Server
The I/O server
.Xr sliod 8
handles requests for actual file data that is read and written in a
.Tn SLASH2
deployment.
The backend storage it uses is rooted in the directory specified by the
.Ic fsroot
option under the IOS resource's profile in the
.Xr slcfg 5
file.
This directory must be an existing POSIX file system
.Pq e.g. ext3, ZFS, xfs, UFS, btrfs, etc. .
.Pp
Note that it is
.Sy not advised
to use the
.Xr zfs-fuse 8
system included in the SLASH2 distribution as the IOS backend file
system due to poor performance, software maintenance, and other reasons.
.Pp
For its core operation,
.Xr sliod 8
simply writes SLASH2 file data under this
.Ic fsroot
location, albeit in a special naming convention.
As such, this directory must be initialized for use by
.Xr slmkfs 8 ,
very similarly to the way the MDFS was formatted above.
.Pp
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ios-host# slmkfs -i -u $fsuuid -I $site_id:$res_id /$fsroot
.Ed
.Pp
In this example,
.Va $fsuuid
is the value generated when formatting the MDFS via
.Xr slmkfs 8
above.
.Pp
Next, ensure that the deployment's shared communication key
.Pq the Dq authbuf key file
has been installed on the IOS host.
The location of this file defaults to
.Pa /var/lib/slash/authbuf.key
and is generated automatically by
.Xr slashd 8
or can be generated manually with
.Xr slkeymgt 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ios-host# scp mds-host:/var/lib/slash/authbuf.key /var/lib/slash
.Ed
.Pp
Now launch
.Xr sliod 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ios-host# sliod
.Ed
.Pp
.Xr slictl 8
can be used to control live operation of the I/O server once it is
online.
.Ss Client Mount Daemon
To mount a
.Tn SLASH2
deployment on a client host, the deployment's shared authbuf key
must be installed.
The location of this file defaults to
.Pa /var/lib/slash/authbuf.key
and is be generated automatically by
.Xr slashd 8
or can be generated manually with
.Xr slkeymgt 8 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
client-host# scp mds-host:/var/lib/slash/authbuf.key /var/lib/slash
.Ed
.Pp
Now
.Xr slash2client.so 5
may be used to mount a
.Tn SLASH2
file system under a directory node on the local system:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
client-host# mount_slash -U /myfs
.Ed
.Pp
.Xr msctl 8
can be used to control live operation of the client mount point once it
is online.
.Sh CAVEATS
Running metadata and I/O servers on the same machine currently requires
configuring each daemon to listen on different addresses.
Furthermore, the network configuration must be such that each daemon can
access clients via the client destination network address.
.Pp
For example, setups where
.Xr slashd 8
residing on one network on
.Li eth0
reaches a client over a different client network address than
.Xr sliod 8
residing on a different network on
.Li eth1
will not work.
.Pp
The reason for this is because alternative
.Tn TCP
ports cannot be used for each of
.Xr slashd 8
and
.Xr sliod 8 ,
as
.Tn SLASH2
utilizes the Lustre networking stack which does not easily
permit applications from connecting to multiple peers on differing
.Tn TCP
ports.
A single
.Tn TCP
port must be used globally for all daemons.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr odtable 1 ,
.Xr slash2client.so 5 ,
.Xr slcfg 5 ,
.Xr msctl 8 ,
.Xr slashd 8 ,
.Xr slictl 8 ,
.Xr sliod 8 ,
.Xr slkeymgt 8 ,
.Xr slmctl 8 ,
.Xr slmkfs 8 ,
.Xr slmkjrnl 8 ,
.Xr zpool 8
