.\" $Id$
.\" %GPL_START_LICENSE%
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" Copyright 2015-2016, Google, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2015, Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC).
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\" implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License contained in the file
.\" `COPYING-GPL' at the top of this distribution or at
.\" https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.html for more details.
.\" ---------------------------------------------------------------------
.\" %END_LICENSE%
.Dd March 23, 2016
.Dt SLCFG 5
.ds volume PSC \- SLASH2 Administrator's Manual
.Os http://www.psc.edu/
.Sh NAME
.Nm /etc/slash/slcfg
.Nd
.Tn SLASH2
file system configuration
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm slcfg
configuration file specifies storage resources and networks for use on a
.Tn SLASH2
deployment.
This document describes the format of this file.
.Pp
Empty lines and lines beginning with
.Sq Li #
are ignored.
.Pp
The parts of the file fall into several sections:
.Bl -tag
.It global settings
.It sites participating in the deployment
.It MDS resources in each site
.It IOS resources in each site
.El
.Ss Variables
Variables ascribe defaults to settings in site configuration profiles
as well as provide access to per-resource settings.
The syntax is:
.Bl -tag -offset 3n
.It Xo
.Ic set Ar var Li =
.Ar val Ns Li ;\&
.Xc
.Pp
Set the variable
.Ar var
to the given value
.Ar val .
The following variables may be set:
.Bl -tag -offset 3n -width 1n
.It Ic allow_exec Pq optional; CLI-only
Executable
.Xr open 2
access list, separated by colons
.Pq Sq :\& .
.It Ic fsuuid
File system unique ID.
This is a 64-bit number that is generated when formatting the MDS file
system that is used to uniquely identify this SLASH2 deployment to avoid
conflict among multiple deployments accessible from the same host.
.It Ic nets
This value is used to construct the LNet networks setting
.Pq Ev LNET_NETWORKS ,
although it has the same format as the
.Ev LNET_IP2NETS
setting
.Po see
.Xr slashd 8 ,
.Xr slash2client.so 5 ,
or
.Xr sliod 8
for more information
.Pc .
Note that manually specifying
.Pq Ev LNET_NETWORKS
or
.Pq Ev LNET_IP2NETS
will cause ignore this setting to be ignored.
.It Ic port
.Tn TCP
port used to establish connections to
.Tn SLASH2
peers.
.It Ic routes
This value, if specified, is used to specify the environment variable
.Ev LNET_ROUTES
.Po see
.Xr slashd 8 ,
.Xr slash2client.so 5 ,
or
.Xr sliod 8
for more information
.Pc .
.El
.El
.Pp
Additional configuration files may be included with
.Ic include :
.Bd -literal -offset 3n
.Ic include Dq Ar pattern
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Ar pattern
argument may be a filename or
.Xr glob 7
pattern.
.Ss Site configuration
Each site resident on a
.Tn SLASH2
network requires its own section in
.Nm slcfg
and has the following format:
.Bd -unfilled -offset 3n
.Ic site @ Ns Ar site-name Li {
.D1 ...
.Li }
.Ed
.Pp
A
.Ic site
definition may itself contain variable definitions and resource
specifications.
The following variables may be set:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -offset 3n -width site_descXX -compact
.It Ic site_desc
Description of site
.It Ic site_id
Numerical identifier for site
.El
.Pp
A resource specification has the following form:
.Bd -unfilled -offset 3n
.Ic resource Ar resource-name Li {
.D1 ...
.Li }
.Ed
.Pp
Resources can specify individual systems or clusters of systems.
Each member node of a cluster must also have its own resource profile.
Resource specifications recognize the following variables:
.Bl -tag -offset 3n -width 3n
.It Ic allow_exec Pq optional; CLI-only
Specify a list of colon-delimited pathnames that are allowed to be used
to access the file system.
.It Ic arc_max Pq optional; MDS-only
Set the maximum size of the general runtime file system cache in MDS,
which internally is the ZFS ARC.
.It Ic desc Pq optional
Short description of the resource.
.It Ic fidcachesz Pq optional
Set the number of entries in the FID cache.
.It Ic flags
Set parameters.
The following parameters are recognized:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width disable_biaXX -offset 3n -compact
.It Ic disable_bia
disable writes
.El
.It Ic fsroot Pq IOS-only
The file system root where backend data is stored.
This directory must be initialized with
.Xr slmkfs 8 .
.It Ic id
Numerical identifier for the resource, required to be unique for all
resources in a site.
.It Ic ios Pq IOS-only
One or more resource names comprising the cluster, separated by comma
delimiters
.Pq applies only to resources of cluster types .
.It Ic journal Pq MDS-only
Set the path of the operation journal file.
May be a direct device for increased performance.
Defaults to
.Pa /var/lib/slash/op-journal .
.It Ic nids
One or more host addresses this resource identifies through.
Domain name services are accessed as necessary and the
.Tn LNET
network may be specified if it cannot be unambiguously determined.
.It Ic pref_ios Pq CLI-only
Preferred
.Tn I/O
system resource name.
.It Ic pref_mds Pq CLI- and IOS-only
Default
.Tn MDS
resource name.
.It Ic self_test Pq IOS-only
Command to run occasionally as a self health test to report to the
.Tn MDS
to indicate high level file system backend or other kinds of problems
.It Ic type
A required resource type used to distinguish behavioral characteristics:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width cluster_noshare_fsX -offset 3n -compact
.It Ic mds
.Tn SLASH2
metadata server
.Pp
.It Ic archival_fs
Potentially long delay storage e.g. tape archiver systems
.It Ic parallel_lfs_compnt
Node in shared parallel file system
.It Ic standalone_fs
Independent file system
.Pp
.It Ic parallel_lfs
Cluster composed of one or more nodes sharing a parallel file system
.It Ic cluster_noshare_lfs
Cluster composed of one or more nodes with independent
.Pq non-shared
file systems
.El
.It Ic slab_cache_size Pq IOS-only
Set the maximum size of the slab cache.
Slabs are used to hold file data in memory.
.It Ic zpool_name Pq MDS-only
The
.Tn ZFS
pool name for the backend metadata storage.
.It Ic zpool_cache Pq MDS-only
The
.Tn ZFS
pool cache file for loading the backend metadata storage.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa -compact
.It Pa /etc/slash/slcfg
default
.Tn SLASH2
resource configuration
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following is an example
.Nm slcfg :
.Bd -literal
set port=1000;
set nets=tcp10;

site @MYSITE {
	site_desc	= "my site name";
	site_id		= 1;

	resource test {
		desc	= "test network";
		type	= mds;
		id	= 1;
		fsroot	= /tmp/slashfs;
		nid	= 10.32.5.82;
	}

	resource par0 {
		type	= parallel_lfs_compnt;
		id	= 101;
		nids	= 10.1.1.1;
		fsroot	= /parstore;
	}

	resource par1 {
		type	= parallel_lfs_compnt;
		id	= 102;
		nids	= 10.1.1.2;
		fsroot	= /parstore;
	}

	resource par2 {
		type	= parallel_lfs_compnt;
		id	= 103;
		nids	= 10.1.1.3;
		fsroot	= /parstore;
	}

	resource par3 {
		type	= parallel_lfs_compnt;
		id	= 104;
		nids	= 10.1.1.4;
		fsroot	= /parstore;
	}

	resource parfs {
		desc	= "my parallel file system";
		type	= parallel_lfs;
		id	= 199;
		ios	= parfs0,
			  parfs1,
			  parfs2,
			  parfs3;
	}
}

site @B {
	resource bigstore0 {
		type	= archival_fs;
		id	= 201;
		nids	= 10.1.2.1;
		fsroot	= /bigstore0_root;
	}

	resource bigstore1 {
		type	= archival_fs;
		id	= 202;
		nids	= 10.1.2.2;
		fsroot	= /bigstore1_root;
	}

	resource bigstore2 {
		type	= archival_fs;
		id	= 203;
		nids	= 10.1.2.3;
		fsroot	= /bigstore2_root;
	}

	resource bigstore3 {
		type	= archival_fs;
		id	= 204;
		nids	= 10.1.2.4;
	}

	resource bigstore {
		desc	= "my archival storage system";
		type	= cluster_noshare_lfs;
		id	= 299;
		ios	= bigstore0@B,
			  bigstore1@B,
			  bigstore2@B,
			  bigstore3@B;
	}
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr slash2client.so 5 ,
.Xr sladm 7 ,
.Xr slashd 8 ,
.Xr sliod 8 ,
.Xr slmkfs 8
